memory-bank/instructions/conventional-commits-must-be-used.instructions.md, before:

---
description: "Mandatory for all commit messages: Conventional commit protocol with gitmoji MUST BE USED."
---

# Conventional Commit Messages

Analyze the origin of the changes, YOU MUST use `chores` to indicate maintenance tasks that are outside the coding folders, or any other more purposeful categorization from the list, you MUST NEVER use `refactor` other than for code restructuring specifically (programming language restructuring, inside of src/ python/ and any other folders with, not for instructions, documentation or other non code related reorganizations), `fix` for bug fixes, and as such any others for their respective purposes. YOU MUST IMPERATIVELY ALWAYS include a gitmoji to enhance clarity and visual appeal of commit messages. Do not use `documentation` (or `docs`) unless it is about documentation targetting the users. The gitmoji MUST be used to reflect the nature of the change (description) of change (the one described in the commit message) and not the scope (used to express category (type) an sub category (scope)), and the commit message MUST follow the conventional commit format.

## Required Format

> [!IMPORTANT] > **EVERY COMMIT MUST INCLUDE GITMOJI** - NO EXCEPTIONS
>
> Format: `<type>[(<scope>)]: <:gitmoji:> <description>`

```bash
<type>[(<optional scope>)]: <:gitmoji:> <description>

[optional body]

[optional footer]
```

## Commit Types

Chose the best candidate for the given commit:

> [!WARNING]
> Urgent info that needs your immediate attention to avoid problems:
> Emoji depends more on the type of change than the scope, so choose the type first and then the emoji, independently, those examples below are only guidelines.

- `build` - Build system (`:construction_worker:`, `:arrow_up:`, `:arrow_down:`)
- `chore` - Maintenance (`:wrench:`, `:fire:`, `:heavy_plus_sign:`, `:heavy_minus_sign:`)
- `fix` - Bug fixes (`:bug:`, `:ambulance:` for critical)
- `refactor` - Code restructuring (`:recycle:`, `:building_construction:`)
- `docs` - Documentation (`:memo:`)
- `feat` - New features (`:sparkles:`)
- `style` - Code formatting (`:art:`, `:rotating_light:`)
- `perf` - Performance improvements (`:zap:`)
- `test` - Testing (`:white_check_mark:`, `:green_heart:`)

## Essential Gitmoji

| Emoji | Code                 | Usage                  |
| ----- | -------------------- | ---------------------- |
| 🐛    | `:bug:`              | Bug fixes              |
| 🚑    | `:ambulance:`        | Critical hotfix        |
| 📝    | `:memo:`             | Documentation          |
| 🎨    | `:art:`              | Code structure/format  |
| ⚡    | `:zap:`              | Performance            |
| 🔥    | `:fire:`             | Remove code/files      |
| ♻️    | `:recycle:`          | Refactor Anything      |
| ✅    | `:white_check_mark:` | Tests                  |
| 🔧    | `:wrench:`           | Configuration          |
| ⬆️    | `:arrow_up:`         | Upgrade dependencies   |
| ⬇️    | `:arrow_down:`       | Downgrade dependencies |
| 💥    | `:boom:`             | Breaking changes       |
| 🚨    | `:rotating_light:`   | Fix warnings           |
| 💚    | `:green_heart:`      | Fix CI                 |
| 🔒    | `:lock:`             | Security fixes         |
| ✨    | `:sparkles:`         | New features           |

## Examples

```bash
# Features
feat(auth): :sparkles: add OAuth2 authentication support
feat(api)!: :boom: redesign user endpoint structure

# Bug Fixes
fix(payment): :ambulance: resolve payment gateway timeout
fix(ui): :bug: correct responsive layout

# Documentation
docs(readme): :memo: add installation instructions

# Performance
perf(database): :zap: optimize user queries

# Build/Dependencies
build(deps): :arrow_up: upgrade Next.js to v15.1.2

# Testing
test(auth): :white_check_mark: add unit tests
```

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Refactoring commits are about changes into the code folders, for programming language refactorings and not others, it must focus on improving the code structure without changing its behavior.

```bash
# Refactoring
refactor(components): :art: extract validation logic
```

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Chores should not include any functional changes, only maintenance tasks, outside of the coding folders.

```bash
# Chores
chore(ci): :wrench: update GitHub Actions workflow
```

## Breaking Changes

Add `!` before `:` and include `BREAKING CHANGE:` in footer:

```bash
feat(api)!: :boom: remove legacy endpoints

BREAKING CHANGE: Legacy v1 endpoints removed. Use v2 API.

Closes #123
```

## References

- [Conventional Commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/)
- [Gitmoji Guide](https://gitmoji.dev/)
- [Complete Gitmoji Selection](../prompts/gitmoji-complete-list.prompt.md)

<!-- [Breaking Changes Guide](../prompts/breaking-changes.prompt.md) -->

## Breaking Changes Guide (Concise)

### Required Format

- Indicate breaking changes in two places:
  1.  Add `!` before the colon in the subject line
  2.  Add a `BREAKING CHANGE:` footer with details
- Use gitmoji to reflect the nature of the change

#### Example

```
feat(api)!: :boom: remove legacy user endpoints

BREAKING CHANGE: All v1 user endpoints have been removed. Use v2 endpoints instead.
```

### Migration & Documentation

- Always provide migration instructions in the commit footer
- Update documentation and release notes
- Major version bump required

### Good Commit Example

```
feat(auth)!: :boom: update authentication method signature

BREAKING CHANGE: authenticate() now requires an options object instead of separate parameters.
Before: authenticate(username, password, remember)
After: authenticate({ username, password, rememberMe })
```

### Summary Checklist

- Document the change and why
- Provide migration path
- Major version bump
- Update docs/release notes

### Best Practice

- Be specific and helpful
- Include migration steps
- Avoid vague messages

<!-- [Commit Examples](../prompts/commit-examples.prompt.md) -->

## Complete Gitmoji List

This prompt file contains the complete list of gitmoji for conventional commits.

### All Available Gitmoji

🎨 `:art:` - Improve structure / format of the code
⚡ `:zap:` - Improve performance
🔥 `:fire:` - Remove code or files
🐛 `:bug:` - Fix a bug
🚑 `:ambulance:` - Critical hotfix
✨ `:sparkles:` - Introduce new features
📝 `:memo:` - Add or update documentation
🚀 `:rocket:` - Deploy stuff
💄 `:lipstick:` - Add or update the UI and style files
🎉 `:tada:` - Begin a project
✅ `:white_check_mark:` - Add, update, or pass tests
🔒 `:lock:` - Fix security issues
🔐 `:closed_lock_with_key:` - Add or update secrets
🔖 `:bookmark:` - Release / Version tags
🚨 `:rotating_light:` - Fix compiler / linter warnings
🚧 `:construction:` - Work in progress
💚 `:green_heart:` - Fix CI Build
⬇️ `:arrow_down:` - Downgrade dependencies
⬆️ `:arrow_up:` - Upgrade dependencies
📌 `:pushpin:` - Pin dependencies to specific versions
👷 `:construction_worker:` - Add or update CI build system
📈 `:chart_with_upwards_trend:` - Add or update analytics or track code
♻️ `:recycle:` - Refactor code
➕ `:heavy_plus_sign:` - Add a dependency
➖ `:heavy_minus_sign:` - Remove a dependency
🔧 `:wrench:` - Add or update configuration files
🔨 `:hammer:` - Add or update development scripts
🌐 `:globe_with_meridians:` - Internationalization and localization
✏️ `:pencil2:` - Fix typos
💩 `:poop:` - Write bad code that needs to be improved
⏪ `:rewind:` - Revert changes
🔀 `:twisted_rightwards_arrows:` - Merge branches
📦 `:package:` - Add or update compiled files or packages
👽 `:alien:` - Update code due to external API changes
🚚 `:truck:` - Move or rename resources (e.g. files, paths, routes)
📄 `:page_facing_up:` - Add or update license
💥 `:boom:` - Introduce breaking changes
🍱 `:bento:` - Add or update assets
♿ `:wheelchair:` - Improve accessibility
💡 `:bulb:` - Add or update comments in source code
🍻 `:beers:` - Write code drunkenly
💬 `:speech_balloon:` - Add or update text and literals
🗃️ `:card_file_box:` - Perform database related changes
🔊 `:loud_sound:` - Add or update logs
🔇 `:mute:` - Remove logs
👥 `:busts_in_silhouette:` - Add or update contributor(s)
🚸 `:children_crossing:` - Improve user experience / usability
🏗️ `:building_construction:` - Make architectural changes
📱 `:iphone:` - Work on responsive design
🤡 `:clown_face:` - Mock things
🥚 `:egg:` - Add or update an easter egg
🙈 `:see_no_evil:` - Add or update a .gitignore file
📸 `:camera_flash:` - Add or update snapshots
⚗️ `:alembic:` - Perform experiments
🔍 `:mag:` - Improve SEO
🏷️ `:label:` - Add or update types
🌱 `:seedling:` - Add or update seed files
🚩 `:triangular_flag_on_post:` - Add, update, or remove feature flags
🥅 `:goal_net:` - Catch errors
💫 `:dizzy:` - Add or update animations and transitions
🗑️ `:wastebasket:` - Deprecate code that needs to be cleaned up
🛂 `:passport_control:` - Work on code related to authorization, roles and permissions
🩹 `:adhesive_bandage:` - Simple fix for a non-critical issue
🧐 `:monocle_face:` - Data exploration / inspection
⚰️ `:coffin:` - Remove dead code
🧪 `:test_tube:` - Add a failing test
👔 `:necktie:` - Add or update business logic
🩺 `:stethoscope:` - Add or update healthcheck
🧱 `:bricks:` - Infrastructure related changes
🧑‍💻 `:technologist:` - Improve developer experience
💸 `:money_with_wings:` - Add sponsorships or money related infrastructure
🧵 `:thread:` - Add or update code related to multithreading or concurrency
🦺 `:safety_vest:` - Add or update code related to validation

#### Selection Guidelines

Choose the most appropriate gitmoji based on:

1. Primary purpose of the commit
2. Most impactful change being made
3. User-facing vs. internal changes
4. Urgency level (critical vs. standard)

Commit message:

chore(memory-bank): :memo: log instruction updates

memory-bank/instructions/conventional-commits-must-be-used.instructions.md, after:

---
description: "Mandatory for all commit messages: Conventional commit protocol with gitmoji MUST BE USED."
---

# Conventional Commit Messages

- Use `chore` for maintenance outside coding folders.
- Use `refactor` only for code restructuring within code directories.
- Use `fix` for bug fixes and choose other types for their specific purposes.
- Include a gitmoji in every commit message.
- Avoid the `docs` type unless updating user-facing documentation.
- Select gitmoji based on the change's nature, not its scope.
- Follow the conventional commit format at all times.

## Required Format

> [!IMPORTANT] > **EVERY COMMIT MUST INCLUDE GITMOJI** - NO EXCEPTIONS
>
> Format: `<type>[(<scope>)]: <:gitmoji:> <description>`

```bash
<type>[(<optional scope>)]: <:gitmoji:> <description>

[optional body]

[optional footer]
```

## Commit Types

Chose the best candidate for the given commit:

> [!WARNING]
> Urgent info that needs your immediate attention to avoid problems:
> Emoji depends more on the type of change than the scope, so choose the type first and then the emoji, independently, those examples below are only guidelines.

- `build` - Build system (`:construction_worker:`, `:arrow_up:`, `:arrow_down:`)
- `chore` - Maintenance (`:wrench:`, `:fire:`, `:heavy_plus_sign:`, `:heavy_minus_sign:`)
- `fix` - Bug fixes (`:bug:`, `:ambulance:` for critical)
- `refactor` - Code restructuring (`:recycle:`, `:building_construction:`)
- `docs` - Documentation (`:memo:`)
- `feat` - New features (`:sparkles:`)
- `style` - Code formatting (`:art:`, `:rotating_light:`)
- `perf` - Performance improvements (`:zap:`)
- `test` - Testing (`:white_check_mark:`, `:green_heart:`)

## Essential Gitmoji

| Emoji | Code                 | Usage                  |
| ----- | -------------------- | ---------------------- |
| 🐛    | `:bug:`              | Bug fixes              |
| 🚑    | `:ambulance:`        | Critical hotfix        |
| 📝    | `:memo:`             | Documentation          |
| 🎨    | `:art:`              | Code structure/format  |
| ⚡    | `:zap:`              | Performance            |
| 🔥    | `:fire:`             | Remove code/files      |
| ♻️    | `:recycle:`          | Refactor Anything      |
| ✅    | `:white_check_mark:` | Tests                  |
| 🔧    | `:wrench:`           | Configuration          |
| ⬆️    | `:arrow_up:`         | Upgrade dependencies   |
| ⬇️    | `:arrow_down:`       | Downgrade dependencies |
| 💥    | `:boom:`             | Breaking changes       |
| 🚨    | `:rotating_light:`   | Fix warnings           |
| 💚    | `:green_heart:`      | Fix CI                 |
| 🔒    | `:lock:`             | Security fixes         |
| ✨    | `:sparkles:`         | New features           |

## Examples

```bash
# Features
feat(auth): :sparkles: add OAuth2 authentication support
feat(api)!: :boom: redesign user endpoint structure

# Bug Fixes
fix(payment): :ambulance: resolve payment gateway timeout
fix(ui): :bug: correct responsive layout

# Documentation
docs(readme): :memo: add installation instructions

# Performance
perf(database): :zap: optimize user queries

# Build/Dependencies
build(deps): :arrow_up: upgrade Next.js to v15.1.2

# Testing
test(auth): :white_check_mark: add unit tests
```

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Refactoring commits are about changes into the code folders, for programming language refactorings and not others, it must focus on improving the code structure without changing its behavior.

```bash
# Refactoring
refactor(components): :art: extract validation logic
```

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Chores should not include any functional changes, only maintenance tasks, outside of the coding folders.

```bash
# Chores
chore(ci): :wrench: update GitHub Actions workflow
```

## Breaking Changes

Add `!` before `:` and include `BREAKING CHANGE:` in footer:

```bash
feat(api)!: :boom: remove legacy endpoints

BREAKING CHANGE: Legacy v1 endpoints removed. Use v2 API.

Closes #123
```

## References

- [Conventional Commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/)
- [Gitmoji Guide](https://gitmoji.dev/)
- [Complete Gitmoji Selection](../prompts/gitmoji-complete-list.prompt.md)

<!-- [Breaking Changes Guide](../prompts/breaking-changes.prompt.md) -->

## Breaking Changes Guide (Concise)

### Required Format

- Indicate breaking changes in two places:
  1.  Add `!` before the colon in the subject line
  2.  Add a `BREAKING CHANGE:` footer with details
- Use gitmoji to reflect the nature of the change

#### Example

```
feat(api)!: :boom: remove legacy user endpoints

BREAKING CHANGE: All v1 user endpoints have been removed. Use v2 endpoints instead.
```

### Migration & Documentation

- Always provide migration instructions in the commit footer
- Update documentation and release notes
- Major version bump required

### Good Commit Example

```
feat(auth)!: :boom: update authentication method signature

BREAKING CHANGE: authenticate() now requires an options object instead of separate parameters.
Before: authenticate(username, password, remember)
After: authenticate({ username, password, rememberMe })
```

### Summary Checklist

- Document the change and why
- Provide migration path
- Major version bump
- Update docs/release notes

### Best Practice

- Be specific and helpful
- Include migration steps
- Avoid vague messages

<!-- [Commit Examples](../prompts/commit-examples.prompt.md) -->

## Complete Gitmoji List

This prompt file contains the complete list of gitmoji for conventional commits.

### All Available Gitmoji

🎨 `:art:` - Improve structure / format of the code
⚡ `:zap:` - Improve performance
🔥 `:fire:` - Remove code or files
🐛 `:bug:` - Fix a bug
🚑 `:ambulance:` - Critical hotfix
✨ `:sparkles:` - Introduce new features
📝 `:memo:` - Add or update documentation
🚀 `:rocket:` - Deploy stuff
💄 `:lipstick:` - Add or update the UI and style files
🎉 `:tada:` - Begin a project
✅ `:white_check_mark:` - Add, update, or pass tests
🔒 `:lock:` - Fix security issues
🔐 `:closed_lock_with_key:` - Add or update secrets
🔖 `:bookmark:` - Release / Version tags
🚨 `:rotating_light:` - Fix compiler / linter warnings
🚧 `:construction:` - Work in progress
💚 `:green_heart:` - Fix CI Build
⬇️ `:arrow_down:` - Downgrade dependencies
⬆️ `:arrow_up:` - Upgrade dependencies
📌 `:pushpin:` - Pin dependencies to specific versions
👷 `:construction_worker:` - Add or update CI build system
📈 `:chart_with_upwards_trend:` - Add or update analytics or track code
♻️ `:recycle:` - Refactor code
➕ `:heavy_plus_sign:` - Add a dependency
➖ `:heavy_minus_sign:` - Remove a dependency
🔧 `:wrench:` - Add or update configuration files
🔨 `:hammer:` - Add or update development scripts
🌐 `:globe_with_meridians:` - Internationalization and localization
✏️ `:pencil2:` - Fix typos
💩 `:poop:` - Write bad code that needs to be improved
⏪ `:rewind:` - Revert changes
🔀 `:twisted_rightwards_arrows:` - Merge branches
📦 `:package:` - Add or update compiled files or packages
👽 `:alien:` - Update code due to external API changes
🚚 `:truck:` - Move or rename resources (e.g. files, paths, routes)
📄 `:page_facing_up:` - Add or update license
💥 `:boom:` - Introduce breaking changes
🍱 `:bento:` - Add or update assets
♿ `:wheelchair:` - Improve accessibility
💡 `:bulb:` - Add or update comments in source code
🍻 `:beers:` - Write code drunkenly
💬 `:speech_balloon:` - Add or update text and literals
🗃️ `:card_file_box:` - Perform database related changes
🔊 `:loud_sound:` - Add or update logs
🔇 `:mute:` - Remove logs
👥 `:busts_in_silhouette:` - Add or update contributor(s)
🚸 `:children_crossing:` - Improve user experience / usability
🏗️ `:building_construction:` - Make architectural changes
📱 `:iphone:` - Work on responsive design
🤡 `:clown_face:` - Mock things
🥚 `:egg:` - Add or update an easter egg
🙈 `:see_no_evil:` - Add or update a .gitignore file
📸 `:camera_flash:` - Add or update snapshots
⚗️ `:alembic:` - Perform experiments
🔍 `:mag:` - Improve SEO
🏷️ `:label:` - Add or update types
🌱 `:seedling:` - Add or update seed files
🚩 `:triangular_flag_on_post:` - Add, update, or remove feature flags
🥅 `:goal_net:` - Catch errors
💫 `:dizzy:` - Add or update animations and transitions
🗑️ `:wastebasket:` - Deprecate code that needs to be cleaned up
🛂 `:passport_control:` - Work on code related to authorization, roles and permissions
🩹 `:adhesive_bandage:` - Simple fix for a non-critical issue
🧐 `:monocle_face:` - Data exploration / inspection
⚰️ `:coffin:` - Remove dead code
🧪 `:test_tube:` - Add a failing test
👔 `:necktie:` - Add or update business logic
🩺 `:stethoscope:` - Add or update healthcheck
🧱 `:bricks:` - Infrastructure related changes
🧑‍💻 `:technologist:` - Improve developer experience
💸 `:money_with_wings:` - Add sponsorships or money related infrastructure
🧵 `:thread:` - Add or update code related to multithreading or concurrency
🦺 `:safety_vest:` - Add or update code related to validation

#### Selection Guidelines

Choose the most appropriate gitmoji based on:

1. Primary purpose of the commit
2. Most impactful change being made
3. User-facing vs. internal changes
4. Urgency level (critical vs. standard)
